Updated Jepsen documentation to represent up-to-date information (#23259)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/benchmark/resilience/jepsen-testing.md

---
title: Jepsen testing
headerTitle: Jepsen testing
linkTitle: Jepsen testing
description: Description of Jepsen testing.
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: jepsen-testing-1
    parent: resilience
    weight: 13
aliases:
  - /preview/benchmark/resilience/jepsen-testing-ysql/
  - /preview/benchmark/resilience/jepsen-testing-ycql/
type: docs
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed

> This documentation page contains descriptions of Jepsen tests that YugabyteDB runs daily for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes Jepsen tests that YugabyteDB runs daily for each major releases currently available.
```

Author: `This page describes Jepsen tests that YugabyteDB runs daily for each major release currently available.`
Changed to suggested line, except `release` word in singular form

> major release currently available, including master branch releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed

## Scenarios

### Bank

> This test simulates money transfer between accounts; it uses a table of form T`(id int PRIMARY KEY,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test simulates money transfer between accounts; it uses a table T with schema `(id int PRIMARY KEY,
```

balance bigint)`. The workload performs transactional transfers between accounts - `(UPDATE T
balance = balance - x WHERE id = ?; UPDATE T SET balance = balance + x WHERE id = ?;)` as well as

> reads of the whole table. It expects the grand total to remain the same, both in short and long

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reads of the whole table. The  grand total is expected to remain the same, both in short and long
```

Author: Fixed

term.

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-1-bank.png)

```plpgsql
BEGIN TXN;
UPDATE T SET balance = balance + x WHERE id = ?;
UPDATE T SET balance = balance - x WHERE id = ?;
COMMIT;
```

### Bank-contention (YSQL)

> In addition to UPDATE transactions, there are also INSERT or INSERT/DELETE transactions, all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to UPDATE transactions, there are also INSERT or INSERT/DELETE transactions, all operating under the assumption that the overall `SUM(balance)` must remain consistent. For simplicity in the case of Jepsen, 5 keys are designated for UPDATE operations, and 5 for random INSERTs and DELETEs.
```

Author: Is it our guideline to put paragraph into a single line?
It is very confusing to fix something in this case in source code, since it is not on the screen. As far as I understand it does not affect target formatting

Author: Fixed all occurences

operating under the assumption that the overall `SUM(balance)` must remain consistent. To avoid
overcomplicating the scenario in the case of Jepsen, 5 keys designated for UPDATE operations and 5
keys for random INSERTs and DELETEs

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-2-bank-contention.png)

```plpgsql
-- updates
BEGIN TXN;
UPDATE T SET balance = balance + x WHERE id = ?;
UPDATE T SET balance = balance - x WHERE id = ?;
COMMIT;

-- inserts
BEGIN TXN;
INSERT INTO T (id, balance) VALUES (?, ?);
UPDATE T SET balance = balance - x WHERE id = ?;
COMMIT;

-- deletes
BEGIN TXN;
SELECT balance FROM T WHERE id = ?;
UPDATE T SET balance = balance + x WHERE id = ?;
DELETE FROM T WHERE id = ?;
COMMIT;
```

### Counter

> This test uses a table T`(id int PRIMARY KEY, count int)` with a single row, with the workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test uses a table T with schema `(id int PRIMARY KEY, count int)` with a single row, with the workload
```

Author: Fixed

consisting of concurrent increments `(UPDATE T SET count = count + ? WHERE id = 0)` and reads. At
any
given time the value column is expected to be not more than the number of increments issued, and not
less than the number of increments succeeded.

The test utilizes the int column type for YSQL and counter type for YCQL.

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-3-counter.png)

### Set

> This scenario uses a table with T`(id int PRIMARY KEY, val int, grp int)`. Concurrently, values are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test uses a table T with schema `(id int PRIMARY KEY, val int, grp int)`. Concurrently, values are inserted into this table while simultaneously reading the entire table. After an insert operation succeeds, or when an element is first observed in a read operation (whichever occurs first), all subsequent reads are expected to include that inserted element.
```

inserted into this table while simultaneously reading the entire table. Once an insert operation
succeeds, or when an element is first observed in a read operation (whichever occurs first), all
subsequent reads are expected to include that inserted element.

For YCQL, the table also includes a count column, and the workload permits duplicate inserts.

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-4-set.png)

```plpgsql
INSERT INTO T (id, val, grp) VALUES (?, ?, ?);
SELECT val FROM T where id = 0;
```

### Long fork

> The long-fork test uses a table T`(key int PRIMARY KEY, key2 int, val int)`, where individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The long-fork test uses a table T with schema `(key int PRIMARY KEY, key2 int, val int)`, where individual workers execute either single-row inserts or perform multi-row reads. The expectation is that the read results are serializable. This means that for two write operations, W1 and W2, it should not be possible for a read operation R1 to observe write W1 but not W2, while another read operation R2 observes W2 but not W1.

For more information about the long-fork test, see [Jespen tests documentation](https://jepsen-io.github.io/jepsen/jepsen.tests.long-fork.html).
```

Author: Fixed

workers
execute either single-row inserts or perform multi-row reads. The expectation is that the read
results are serializable. This means that for two write operations, W1 and W2, it should not be
possible for a read operation R1 to observe write W1 but not W2, while another read operation R2
observes W2 but not W1.
To read more about the long-fork test see [here](https://jepsen-io.github.io/jepsen/jepsen.tests.long-fork.html).

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-5-long-fork.png)

### Default value

> This scenario entails concurrent Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation Language (DML)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario entails concurrent Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation Language (DML) operations, simulating a migration scenario. When performing inserts and reads, you add a `DEFAULT 0` column to ensure that it is actually zero and not null. 
```

operations, simulating a migration scenario. Here, the user adds a `DEFAULT 0` column, ensuring that
it is actually zero and not null when performing inserts and reads.

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-6-default-value.png)

### Single Key ACID

> The test uses a table T`(id int PRIMARY KEY, val int)` with a fixed number of rows, each row having

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test uses a table T with schema`(id int PRIMARY KEY, val int)` with a fixed number of rows, each row having several worker threads assigned to it. Each worker can either read the row, update the row, or perform compare-and-set `UPDATE T SET val = ? WHERE id = ? AND val = ?`; worker groups for different rows are completely independent of each other. Checker makes sure that the resulting operations history is linearizable, that is, reads observe previous writes and writes don’t disappear.
```

Author: Fixed

several worker threads assigned to it. Each worker can either read the row, update the row, or
perform compare-and-set `UPDATE T SET val = ? WHERE id = ? AND val = ?`, worker groups for different
rows are completely independent of each other. Checker makes sure that the resulting operations
history is linearizable - i.e. that reads observe previous writes and writes don’t disappear.

![Load Phase Results](/images/benchmark/jepsen/jepsen-7-single-key-acid.png)

### Multi Key ACID

> Similar to the single-key ACID test, but uses a composite primary key T`(k1 int, k2 int, val int,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test is similar to the single-key ACID test, but uses a composite primary key on table T with schema `(k1 int, k2 int, val int, PRIMARY KEY (k1, k2))` and UPSERTs (for YSQL it is `INSERT .. ON CONFLICT DO UPDATE SET`) instead of
compare-and-set.
```

Author: Fixed
